In human health risk assessment, identification of genotoxicity hazard usually starts with a standard battery of in vitro genotoxicity tests. This battery is needed to cover the different genotoxicity endpoints. The tests included in the battery (partly) differ in their underlying biology, due to which resulting data may seem contradictory, thereby complicating accurate interpretation of the findings. Such interpretation could be improved through application of mathematical modelling. One of the advantages of mathematical modelling is that the strengths and weaknesses of each test are taken into account. Furthermore, the generated predictions are objective and convey the associated uncertainties. 
This approach was explored by the working group "Predictivity of In Vitro Genotoxicity Testing", convened in the context of the 8th International Workshop on Genotoxicity Testing (IWGT) held from the 23rd to the 26th August, 2022 in Ottawa, Canada. We applied mathematical modelling to a database with publicly available in vitro and in vivo data for genotoxicity. Further research will provide more insights whether to reconsider the composition of the standard in vitro genotoxicity battery.
The method included here uses Bayesian modelling to calculate the predictive weight of evidence (pWoE) for a combination of (genotoxicity) test results. The input is a csv file with the (in vivo) outcome in the first column and the various input assays in other columns. An example data set is included.
